Rename the XBlock to Stackamole XBlock (#332)
hastexo/hastexo-xblock: MIGRATION.md

# Migrating from the Hastexo XBlock to Stackamole XBlock

This project was renamed to Stackamole XBlock in May 2026 and version `9.0.0` includes a one way migration script to rename the data tables.
To migrate your project, using Tutor, do the following:
1. Install `stackamole-xblock==9.0.0`.

> 2. Install and enable `git+https://github.com/cleura/tutor-contrib-stackamole@v3.0.0`.

Reviewer: I think you want to be a little more explicit here, and also swap the order of the first two items:

```suggestion
1. Install and enable `git+https://github.com/cleura/tutor-contrib-stackamole@v3.0.0` in your Tutor environment.
2. In the Tutor `config.yml` file, add `stackamole-xblock==9.0.0` to the `OPENEDX_EXTRA_PIP_REQUIREMENTS` list.```
```

3. Rename all your `HASTEXO_*` settings in `config.yml` to `STACKAMOLE_*`.
4. Update the `terminal_url` in your `STACKAMOLE_XBLOCK_SETTINGS` to `/stackamole-xblock/`.
5. Run `tutor config save`.
6. Rebuild the `openedx` and `stackamole` images.

> 7. Run `tutor local/k8s launch` # the migration script to rename the data tables will be run at this step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Run `tutor local/k8s launch`.
   This includes running the migration script to rename the data tables.
```

> 8. (Optional) Depending on your deployment setup, you might need to delete the `hastexo` deployments once all other steps are completed.

Reviewer: Please elaborate on how this is done.

## Migrating courses

Your courses should now use the `stackamole` module instead of `hastexo`, however a `hastexo` entrypoint will remain in the XBlock for backward compatibility, until further notice.
Meaning, all courses using the `hastexo` module will run normally and importing a `hastexo` course will also remain possible.
The easiest way to migrate your courses, is to export and re-import them, as the XBlock will now automatically export the course to use the `stackamole` module.

> If you need to manually migrate your course XML, rename all `<hastexo>` tags to `<stackamole>`, rename the `hastexo` directory to `stackamole` and update the the `advanced_modules` list in your `policy.json` to include `stackamole` instead of `hastexo`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your courses should now use the `stackamole` module instead of `hastexo`, however a `hastexo` entrypoint will remain in the XBlock for backward compatibility, until further notice.
This means that all courses using the `hastexo` module will run normally, and importing such a course will also remain possible.

The easiest way to migrate your courses, is to export and re-import them, as the XBlock will now automatically export the course to use the `stackamole` module.

If you do need to manually migrate your course XML:

* rename all `<hastexo>` tags to `<stackamole>`,
* rename the `hastexo` directory to `stackamole`,
* update the the `advanced_modules` list in your `policy.json` to include `stackamole` instead of `hastexo`.
```

# Migrating from the Hastexo XBlock to Stackamole XBlock

> This project was renamed to Stackamole XBlock in May 2026 and version `9.0.0` includes a one way migration script to rename the data tables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This project was renamed to Stackamole XBlock in May 2026.
Version `9.0.0` includes a one-way migration script to rename the data tables.
```

Reviewer: Another note: we're not planning to discard the migration script in 9.0.1, are we? If not, we might also say:

```suggestion
This project was renamed to Stackamole XBlock in May 2026.
From version `9` forward, it includes a one-way migration script to rename the data tables.
```

To migrate your project, using Tutor, do the following:
1. Install and enable `git+https://github.com/cleura/tutor-contrib-stackamole@v3.0.0` in your Tutor environment.
2. In the Tutor `config.yml` file, add `stackamole-xblock==9.0.0` to the `OPENEDX_EXTRA_PIP_REQUIREMENTS` list.
3. Rename all your `HASTEXO_*` settings in `config.yml` to `STACKAMOLE_*`.
4. Update the `terminal_url` in your `STACKAMOLE_XBLOCK_SETTINGS` to `/stackamole-xblock/`.
5. Run `tutor config save`.
6. Rebuild the `openedx` and `stackamole` images.
7. Run `tutor local/k8s launch`.
   This includes running the migration script to rename the data tables.
8. (Optional) Depending on your deployment setup, you might need to delete the `hastexo` deployments once all other steps are completed.
   For example, in a k8s environment, run:
   ```bash
    kubectl delete deployment hastexo-xblock -n <namespace>
    kubectl delete deployment hastexo-xblock-reaper -n <namespace>

>     kubectl delete deployment hastexo-xblock-suspender -n <namespace>

Reviewer: I think it counts as best practice to define the namespace first, hence:

```suggestion
    kubectl -n <namespace> delete deployment hastexo-xblock
    kubectl -n <namespace> delete deployment hastexo-xblock-reaper
    kubectl -n <namespace> delete deployment hastexo-xblock-suspender
```

   ```

## Migrating courses

Your courses should now use the `stackamole` module instead of `hastexo`, however a `hastexo` entrypoint will remain in the XBlock for backward compatibility, until further notice.
This means that all courses using the `hastexo` module will run normally, and importing such a course will also remain possible.

> The easiest way to migrate your courses, is to export and re-import them, as the XBlock will now automatically export the course to use the `stackamole` module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Export/import cycle

The easiest way to migrate your courses, is to export and re-import them, as the XBlock will now automatically export the course to use the `stackamole` module.
```

> If you need to manually migrate your course XML

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Manual modifications

If you need to manually migrate your course XML:
```

Reviewer: Please add the `:` at the end of the line as well. :)

> # Migrating from the Hastexo XBlock to Stackamole XBlock

Reviewer: For consistency:

```suggestion
# Migrating from the hastexo XBlock to the Stackamole XBlock
```

This project was renamed to Stackamole XBlock in May 2026.
From version `9` forward, it includes a one-way migration script to rename the data tables.
To migrate your project, using Tutor, do the following:
1. Install and enable `git+https://github.com/cleura/tutor-contrib-stackamole@v3.0.0` in your Tutor environment.

> 2. In the Tutor `config.yml` file, add `stackamole-xblock==9.0.0` to the `OPENEDX_EXTRA_PIP_REQUIREMENTS` list.

Reviewer: Just checking: does it make much sense to refer to specific versions in these two lines?

Author: I updated the xblock to `>=`, kept the plugin at the specific version so it'd be easy to copy but added a note in parenthesis to install `v3.0.0` or higher.
